The orbitSurgeySim module is used for interactively registered and compare the fit of different types of preformed plates or different ways of plate placment to orbit fracture sites. Sample data and video tutorial is provided. More detailed tutorial will be provided. Sample data containsusing the post dental surgery CBCT skull volume from the Slicer Sample Data module as well as two types of synthetic plates (generated by the author Chi Zhang). 

1. Plate registration requires placing plates at the surface of the intact peripheral bone of the fracture site. Conventional registration typically produced overlapping between models. This would impact accuracy of virtual planning and fit evaluation. The plateRegistration module utilized the new Slicer tool, Interaction Transform Handle, and utility tools, (e.g., instant intersection markers, collision detection and markers, align posterior stop) to facilitate users to interacytively adjust plate position util resting just above the peripheral bone.

Users can also use this tool to adjust positions of existing registered plates using the same module. This can facilitate collaborative planning and education.

See below video for a tutorial using the provided plate registration 

2. The second tab of plate registration is for generating fit metrics. Fit metrics contains two types of data. It is highly recommended to first reconstructing the fractured orbit using the mirror image of the intact side. See mirrorOrbitRecon tutorial video in (4) below for more detail.
First, it computes distances between each point of the plate model and the orbital model using the ray casting method (same as in the ModelToModel Distance module in Slicer). For this region, reconstructed orbital model is highly recommended. The fractured orbit is usually very difficult to segment and will have large holes. The distances are stored as scalar values in each vertex of the plate model and can be visualized as heatmap.

Second, it projects user-defined plate curve points onto the orbit (reconstructed orbit highly recommended) and measure distances between selected plate margins to the orbit. The curve points can be conveniently placed using Slicer generic Markup module.

For the below commercial plate, five curves are placed along five margins.

For the below synthetic plate from the sample data, four curves are placed along the peripehral are placed.

Users can placed their own curves and alter the density of points along each curve. Please make sure the number of curves and curve densities are consistent across plates for comparison.

Users can also visualize point projection and heatamp for each individual plate.

3. Compare fit is done by comparing the mean edges

4. Collaborative planning.
